# Population-Forecasting-for-China-In-Python
## The full project report is linked here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12EXmaOym0kyOJJc4Bq2cJNM_JCxdw4LC2x1C40BED8w/edit?usp=sharing
    Advancements in medicine, technology, and overall quality of life have spurred worldwide population growth in the past few centuries. In 1800, the world population stood just under a billion people, which has now expanded to over 7.5 billion. China alone has a growing population of almost 1.4 billion people. Its population will continue to drastically increase due to improvements in areas such as the size of its middle class, life-expectancy, GDP per capita, quality of medicine, and many others. To accomodate for these future changes bound to transpire, the world as a whole, but specifically the Chinese government, needs to make appropriate adjustments. These adjustments could pertain to the expansion and renovation of infrastructure like educational buildings, medical facilities, housing projects, roads, and other building projects and personnel upgrades in these areas. However, the most essential modifications will be in the allocation of resources, whether that be food, water, or nonrenewable sources of energy. Before starting to work on these valuable projects, it is crucial for China to have an idea of the number of people they will have to serve, which makes modeling population growth paramount.
    Python is the prominent programming language in the field of data science, so its application to fit our goals of modeling populations was appropriate. To begin this process, the Python libraries, which are a collection of readily-available functions and methods that allow code to be reused, Matplotlib and Numpy were imported to aid us in plotting the population, rate of change of population, and the rate of acceleration of the population in China. The years from 1960 to 2017 were stored in a Python list (xyears), which basically stores data points, in this case the integers from 1960 to 2017. Another list (ychinapop) was created to store China’s population for each of these years in chronological order based on data from the World Bank. From there, a for loop, which allows specific parts of the code to be run repeatedly, iterated through the second list mentioned, subtracting the population of every year from the population in the following year and adding this subtracted value to a new list (ychinacpop) which contained the change in rate of population data. Since each change in x (year) was always equal to one year and any number divided by 1 is the same number, there was no need to divide the change in y (population) by the change in x (1).  The same procedure of finding the rate of change of population was done for the list ychinacpop to receive a final list (ychinaccpop), which gave the rate of acceleration of China’s population over the years 1960-2017. 
    These lists were then implemented to plot China’s population, change in population and acceleration in population over time. For each of these plots, a title was given, along with a label on the x and y axes through matplotlib commands. The plt.scatter command was then implemented, as depicted below, to create a scatter plot with the year on the x-axis, and a plot-dependent variable (population, velocity of population, or acceleration of population) on the y-axis. The command plt.show() was utilized to display the graphs as output. 
    A linear and polynomial regression was then performed on the data in order to predict the population of the countries. The most common method to perform a linear regression on a set of data is to use the least squares method. Linear regressions are performed when the data appears to follow a linear pattern. In the least squares method, the best line to fit a set of data is calculated by minimizing the sum of the squares of the vertical deviation from each data point to the best fit line (residual). 
    The x and the y with the bar above it represent the means of the x and y sets of data, respectively, while the x and y with subscript i represent the x and y coordinates for each individual data point. The m calculated is the slope in the general form of a linear equation, y=mx+b. The b, or the y-intercept for the equation, is calculated using the equation:
    This utilizes the mean of the y and x data sets and the slope calculated originally to calculate the y-intercept of the line of best fit. When calculating future population, the user inputs a year for which he wants a population prediction, and this year is stored in the variable futureyear. Then the Python function np.polyfit(xyears, ychinapop, 1) finds a linear regression equation for the population of China over time data, and the 1 at the end of the parameter (or what you input into the function) tells the function to find a linear function, since it is the degree of the leading term. This function outputs the m and b values to be input in the general form of a linear equation, y=mx+b. These values are chosen as they minimize the sum of the residuals.
    Polynomial regressions are used when the data does not follow a linear distribution but instead follows an equation with a higher degree. In the specific case of the population data for China, a second degree polynomial regression was performed, which essentially fits a quadratic equation to the data. The functions np.polyfit(xyears, ychinapop, 2) outputted three coefficients (a, b, and c) for the general form of a quadratic equation, ax^2+bx+c, that minimized the sum of the squared vertical deviation from the line, similarly to the linear regression. The methods linregress and quadregress then used the coefficients given from the np.polyfit functions and the futureyear variable, stored as the year for population prediction given by the user, to arrive at a population prediction for that year based on linear and quadratic functions mapping the data. These population predictions (one from linear function and other from quadratic function) were finally printed to the screen for the user to see. 
    In conclusion, predicting the population of China is incredibly important to help their government leaders to prepare for such changes in population by constructing more infrastructure, stimulating jobs and education for the youth population, and caring for the elderly. It is especially critical for the country of China specifically because China bears the largest human population out of any country in the world at nearly 1.37 billion citizens and has experienced drastic population change over the years, which makes it difficult for people to model its population. Thus, this Python application, which uses math concepts such as derivatives and the creation of linear and polynomial regression models, is extremely useful towards obtaining future estimates for China’s population.



